docs/managedzone.md, before:

# Creating and using a ManagedZone resource.

## What is a ManagedZone
A ManagedZone is a reference to a [DNS zone](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DNS_zone). 
By creating a ManagedZone we are instructing the MGC about a domain or subdomain that can be used as a host by any gateways in the same namespace.
These gateways can use a subdomain of the ManagedZone.

If a gateway attempts to a use a domain as a host, and there is no matching ManagedZone for that host, then that host on that gateway will fail to function.

A gateway's host will be matched to any ManagedZone that the host is a subdomain of, i.e. `test.api.hcpapps.net` will be matched by any ManagedZone (in the same namespace) of: `test.api.hcpapps.net`, `api.hcpapps.net` or `hcpapps.net`.

When MGC wants to create the DNS Records for a host, it will create them in the most exactly matching ManagedZone.
e.g. given the zones `hcpapps.net` and `api.hcpapps.net` the DNS Records for the host `test.api.hcpapps.net` will be created in the `api.hcpapps.net` zone.

### Delegation
Delegation allows you to give control of a subdomain of a root domain to MGC while the root domain has it's DNS zone elsewhere.

In the scenario where a root domain has a zone outside Route53, e.g. `external.com`, and a ManagedZone for `delegated.external.com` is required, the following steps can be taken:
- Create the ManagedZone for `delegated.external.com` and wait until the status is updated with an array of nameservers (e.g. `ns1.hcpapps.net`, `ns2.hcpapps.net`). 
- Copy these nameservers to your root zone for `external.com`, you can create a NS record for each nameserver against the `delegated.external.com` record.

For example:
```
delegated.external.com. 3600 IN NS ns1.hcpapps.net.
delegated.external.com. 3600 IN NS ns2.hcpapps.net.
```

Now, when MGC creates a DNS record in it's Route53 zone for `delegated.external.com`, it will be resolved correctly.
### Creating a ManagedZone

To create a `ManagedZone`, you will first need to create a DNS provider Secret. To create one, see our [DNS Provider](provider.md) setup guide, and make note of your provider's secret name.


#### Example ManagedZone
To create a new `ManagedZone` with AWS Route, with a DNS Provider secret named `my-aws-credentials`:

```bash
kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: kuadrant.io/v1alpha1
kind: ManagedZone
metadata:
  name: my-test-aws-zone
  namespace: multi-cluster-gateways
spec:
  domainName: mydomain.example.com
  description: "My Managed Zone"
  dnsProviderSecretRef:
    name: my-aws-credentials
EOF
```

This will create a new Zone in AWS, for `mydomain.example.com`, using the DNS Provider credentials in the `my-aws-credentials` Secret.

If you'd like to create a `ManagedZone` for an _existing_ zone in AWS, note its Zone ID and run:

```bash
kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: kuadrant.io/v1alpha1
kind: ManagedZone
metadata:
  name: my-test-aws-zone
  namespace: multi-cluster-gateways
spec:
  id: MYZONEID
  domainName: mydomain.example.com
  description: "My Managed Zone"
  dnsProviderSecretRef:
    name: my-aws-credentials
EOF
```

#### dnsProviderSecretRef

This is a reference to secret containing the credentials and other configuration for accessing your dns provider
[dnsProvider](provider.md)

**Note:** the Secret referenced in the `dnsProviderSecretRef` field must be in the same namespace as the ManagedZone.

**Note:** as an `id` was specified, the Managed Gateway Controller will not re-create this zone, nor will it delete it if this `ManagedZone` is deleted.

## Spec of a ManagedZone
The ManagedZone is a simple resource with an uncomplicated API, see a sample [here](../config/samples/kuadrant.io_v1alpha1_managedzone.yaml).

Commit message:

state private zones as unsupported

docs/managedzone.md, after:

# Creating and using a ManagedZone resource.

## What is a ManagedZone
A ManagedZone is a reference to a [DNS zone](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DNS_zone). 
By creating a ManagedZone we are instructing the MGC about a domain or subdomain that can be used as a host by any gateways in the same namespace.
These gateways can use a subdomain of the ManagedZone.

If a gateway attempts to a use a domain as a host, and there is no matching ManagedZone for that host, then that host on that gateway will fail to function.

A gateway's host will be matched to any ManagedZone that the host is a subdomain of, i.e. `test.api.hcpapps.net` will be matched by any ManagedZone (in the same namespace) of: `test.api.hcpapps.net`, `api.hcpapps.net` or `hcpapps.net`.

When MGC wants to create the DNS Records for a host, it will create them in the most exactly matching ManagedZone.
e.g. given the zones `hcpapps.net` and `api.hcpapps.net` the DNS Records for the host `test.api.hcpapps.net` will be created in the `api.hcpapps.net` zone.

### Private and Public Zones

Some DNS providers offer private zones. While this is something we will want to support in the future, we currently only support public zones.

### Delegation
Delegation allows you to give control of a subdomain of a root domain to MGC while the root domain has it's DNS zone elsewhere.

In the scenario where a root domain has a zone outside Route53, e.g. `external.com`, and a ManagedZone for `delegated.external.com` is required, the following steps can be taken:
- Create the ManagedZone for `delegated.external.com` and wait until the status is updated with an array of nameservers (e.g. `ns1.hcpapps.net`, `ns2.hcpapps.net`). 
- Copy these nameservers to your root zone for `external.com`, you can create a NS record for each nameserver against the `delegated.external.com` record.

For example:
```
delegated.external.com. 3600 IN NS ns1.hcpapps.net.
delegated.external.com. 3600 IN NS ns2.hcpapps.net.
```

Now, when MGC creates a DNS record in it's Route53 zone for `delegated.external.com`, it will be resolved correctly.
### Creating a ManagedZone

To create a `ManagedZone`, you will first need to create a DNS provider Secret. To create one, see our [DNS Provider](provider.md) setup guide, and make note of your provider's secret name.


#### Example ManagedZone
To create a new `ManagedZone` with AWS Route, with a DNS Provider secret named `my-aws-credentials`:

```bash
kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: kuadrant.io/v1alpha1
kind: ManagedZone
metadata:
  name: my-test-aws-zone
  namespace: multi-cluster-gateways
spec:
  domainName: mydomain.example.com
  description: "My Managed Zone"
  dnsProviderSecretRef:
    name: my-aws-credentials
EOF
```

This will create a new Zone in AWS, for `mydomain.example.com`, using the DNS Provider credentials in the `my-aws-credentials` Secret.

If you'd like to create a `ManagedZone` for an _existing_ zone in AWS, note its Zone ID and run:

```bash
kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: kuadrant.io/v1alpha1
kind: ManagedZone
metadata:
  name: my-test-aws-zone
  namespace: multi-cluster-gateways
spec:
  id: MYZONEID
  domainName: mydomain.example.com
  description: "My Managed Zone"
  dnsProviderSecretRef:
    name: my-aws-credentials
EOF
```

#### dnsProviderSecretRef

This is a reference to secret containing the credentials and other configuration for accessing your dns provider
[dnsProvider](provider.md)

**Note:** the Secret referenced in the `dnsProviderSecretRef` field must be in the same namespace as the ManagedZone.

**Note:** as an `id` was specified, the Managed Gateway Controller will not re-create this zone, nor will it delete it if this `ManagedZone` is deleted.

## Spec of a ManagedZone
The ManagedZone is a simple resource with an uncomplicated API, see a sample [here](../config/samples/kuadrant.io_v1alpha1_managedzone.yaml).
